backend/debug/README.md, before:

# Debug Logs

This directory contains log files and debug information for the Hyper-Tuner application. These files are useful for diagnosing issues, particularly related to date handling and API requests.

## Log Files

- `app.log` - Main application log file that captures all console logs
- `app.log.YYYY-MM-DD` - Rotated log files (one per day)

## Debug Files

Several types of debug files are generated automatically:

- `backtest_request_debug_*.json` - Request data for backtest API calls
- `backtest_results_debug_*.json` - Results from backtest operations
- `kite_raw_response_*.json` - Raw responses from Kite API calls

## Date Conversion Logging

All date/datetime conversions are logged in detail with:
- Input and output values
- Type information
- Source location
- Context information
- Timezone details

## Special Debugging Features

The following markers in logs indicate special debugging information:

- `DATE_DEBUG` - Date-related debugging information
- `DATE_CONVERSION` - Logs from the date conversion utility
- `KITE DATE FIX` - Information about date adjustments for Kite API
- `KITE API REQUEST` - Details of requests to the Kite API

## Adding Useful Debug Information

When working with dates and times, please use the utility functions in `utils.py`:

- `safe_strptime()` - For converting strings to datetime objects
- `safe_strftime()` - For converting datetime objects to strings
- `format_date_for_api()` - For formatting dates specifically for API use
- `log_date_conversion()` - Low-level function for logging date conversions

These functions will automatically add useful context to the logs.

Commit message:

Backtest Fix - clean debug for date conversion from console to debug file.
Summary of Changes
We've successfully implemented a solution to filter DATE_CONVERSION logs from the console output while still saving them to the log files. Here's a summary of the changes we made:
Created a Centralized Logging Configuration:
Added a new logging_config.py module
Implemented a custom filter for DATE_CONVERSION logs
Set up a system with both filtered (console) and unfiltered (file) handlers
Updated All Major Modules to Use the New Configuration:
Modified utils.py to use the filtered logger
Updated app.py to use the new logging configuration
Updated backtest_engine.py, kite_integration.py, strategy_manager.py, and data_provider_factory.py
Ensured proper logger propagation to avoid duplicate logs
Created a Test Script:
Added test_logging.py to verify the filtering works correctly
Demonstrated that DATE_CONVERSION logs appear in the file but not the console
Updated Documentation:
Enhanced the README.md in the debug directory to explain the filtering system
Added instructions for testing the logging configuration
The implementation successfully achieves the goal of keeping DATE_CONVERSION logs out of the console to reduce noise while ensuring they are still available in the log files for debugging purposes. This provides a cleaner development experience without losing any important debug information.

backend/debug/README.md, after:

# Debug Logs

This directory contains log files and debug information for the Hyper-Tuner application. These files are useful for diagnosing issues, particularly related to date handling and API requests.

## Log Files

- `app.log` - Main application log file that captures all console logs
- `app.log.YYYY-MM-DD` - Rotated log files (one per day)

## Log Filtering System

The application uses a special logging configuration that filters certain log messages:

- **Console Output**: All logs EXCEPT those containing "DATE_CONVERSION" are displayed in the console. This provides a cleaner development experience by reducing console noise.
- **Log Files**: ALL logs, including "DATE_CONVERSION" messages, are saved to the log files for comprehensive debugging.

This means that date conversion logs are only visible in the log files, not in the console.

## Debug Files

Several types of debug files are generated automatically:

- `backtest_request_debug_*.json` - Request data for backtest API calls
- `backtest_results_debug_*.json` - Results from backtest operations
- `kite_raw_response_*.json` - Raw responses from Kite API calls

## Date Conversion Logging

All date/datetime conversions are logged in detail with:
- Input and output values
- Type information
- Source location
- Context information
- Timezone details

## Special Debugging Features

The following markers in logs indicate special debugging information:

- `DATE_DEBUG` - Date-related debugging information (visible in console and log file)
- `DATE_CONVERSION` - Logs from the date conversion utility (only visible in log file)
- `KITE DATE FIX` - Information about date adjustments for Kite API
- `KITE API REQUEST` - Details of requests to the Kite API

## Adding Useful Debug Information

When working with dates and times, please use the utility functions in `utils.py`:

- `safe_strptime()` - For converting strings to datetime objects
- `safe_strftime()` - For converting datetime objects to strings
- `format_date_for_api()` - For formatting dates specifically for API use
- `log_date_conversion()` - Low-level function for logging date conversions

These functions will automatically add useful context to the logs.

## Testing the Logging Configuration

You can verify the logging configuration is working correctly by running:

```
python3 test_logging.py
```

This will generate various log messages, including DATE_CONVERSION logs that will only appear in the log file.
